[Music]
alhamdulillah it's great to always hear
that enthusiasm uh from our wonderful
congregation mallah with their Salam may
Allah subhana wa tala bless you say am
mean and we are honored to have
mallah Jamal ABD Nasir with us tonight
remember just last weekend Saturday and
Sunday and also just the the day before
that Friday we've had alhamdulillah our
uh Summer Conference and now the
following weekend alhamdulillah we have
Jamal who's here with us tonight and
who's going to be delivering a talk
which has been given the title
approaching the Quran and we were just
enjoying the of the as he was
leading and the that he was using and
the that he was actually reading and so
forth it was an
amazing and so approaching the Quran as
you know midan is a Masid which is known
for the Quran and Masjid that is known
for youngsters memorizing the Quran and
so forth and our young Brothers as well
and the title is approaching the Quran
the the mind the soul and the limbs so
we're not just going to approach the
Quran with our let's say just our minds
but we're actually approaching the Quran
with the mind the soul and the limbs and
the the last couple of months he has
been alhamdulillah traveling quite a lot
and the places where he was going to the
majority of those places he was going to
them because of the Quran Quran
competitions alhamdulillah going to
different conferences where the Quran is
being alhamdulillah talked about or
where competitions of the Quan we're
taking place may Allah subhana wa tala
bless the Stars say a mean so
alhamdulillah also visited the wonderful
city of the Prophet sallallahu alai
minina over that time during that time
couple of few times and so and the of
alhamdulillah visiting the the city of
Medina and the City of the Prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam is there as
well
so welcome to your mid and alhamdulillah
so I'm going to leave you with the with
the mic and T please uh
and and welcome to your mid
M and we haven't seen you for a while
but in t tonight you will Enlighten us
with with the
when we think about theab of Allah
subhah waala the
Quran the final book to be revealed upon
mankind if you were to think about this
and try to comprehend
this we will come to know and understand
that we owe Allah subhah wa taala a lot
Allah subhana wa ta'ala he created us
and then he gave us this book in order
for us to be upon the right path in
order for us to not be in this world as
people who are lost because if there
were no book there were no guide there
was no Revelation then none of us would
know anything really and truly without
the Quran without the none of us are
anything and there is no difference
between us and the animals and there are
no difference or there is no difference
between us and the other creations of
Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala
and so when Allah subhah wa ta'ala
revealed the Quran he gave it to the
prophet Sall alaihi wasallam in order
for he to empower the um with this Quran
and for it to impact their souls their
minds their hearts their limbs and their
lives until they meet Allah subhah wa
ta'ala we are going to be discussing
these areas we are going to give maybe
only one point for each one so it's
enough for us to understand inall and
then Implement and we don't get confused
if we give too much information I'm
worried that you may not be able to
remember
everything let us begin with the Mind
inshallah
tal one of the greatest
ma one of the greatest objectives of the
revelation of the Quran and this kab of
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala is that we
draw nearer to Allah by coming to know
of his
greatness we venerate Allah subhana wa
taala we glorify
Allah he says this is actually a
sign how do we know how much the servant
loves Allah just take a look at how much
he loves the Quran if you love the
Quran you will love Allah and if your
love of the Quran it is weak or it is
absent you cannot claim that you love
Allah
when you claim something the burden of
proof is upon the claimant the prophet
wasallam and he
said if you claim something it's upon
you to prove it somebody said someone
stole something and someone else said no
he didn't steal are we going to
establish whether he stole or not in
other words if he says person a someone
stole and person B says he didn't steal
and there is no evidence that he stole
what do we say the person didn't steal
anything and if this person says W he
stole what do we say you need to provide
evidence W you swore by Allah fair
enough this is a you say anyone who
fears Allah and says that's a big
statement but the reality of Al Islam
is you are the one who is claiming
something and until you prove that this
person did this then they are innocent
in our eyes they didn't steal anything
and when we see some of the like the of
Z in the Quran adultery Allah says four
people have to see Zena taking place
with their own eyes The Naked Eyes not
two people were holding hands not two
people were in behind a wall and we
heard noises and that four people saw
the har and the crime with their own
eyes this now means that this took place
what if three people saw it three people
saw it's true they saw with their own
eyes amongst the people they may be but
in the sight of Allah Allah
[Music]
says if you do not bring four Witnesses
in the sight of Allah you are all liars
and the religion does this so you
increase in your love for Allah subhah
wa ta'ala
Allah subhah wa taala in the Quran he
says who is the lord of the skies and
the Earth and all this in between in
other aat say it is Allah subhanahu wa
tala when you are reading this how is
your mindset this is how you approach
the Quran Allah is the lord of the skies
and Allah is the lord of the earth and
Allah is the Lord
he is the Lord of everything subhanahu
waala
inform them oh Muhammad if Allah the
almighty were to make it night time
until you will never ever see the sun
again you will never ever see daylight
again you will never ever be able to see
anything outside and it is continuous
Darkness until who is a deity and the
God and the Creator other than Allah
that will bring you and
light don't you listen to what Allah is
saying in the Quran then he said the
opposite if Allah were to just make it
Daylight the sun were to remain above
your heads until imagine how difficult
this is 12:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. is the
same time and time and time it is all
Sunny it is hot imagine you were to live
like this forever and you do not even
know how it is to feel peace because
Allah gave you the night so you can feel
peace Allah says so they feel peace they
can go to sleep and rest Allah says that
I am the one who does this Allah subhana
says indeed your lord Muhammad he does
whatever he
wants Allah does whatever he wants and
the principle of the Quran when you
understand the greatness of Allah
is you never ask Allah you never
question Allah about why he does what he
does why did Allah command this why did
Allah proh this why did Allah decree
this he is Allah subhah wa ta'ala nobody
asks him what he does we are the ones
that are going to be asked about
everything that we do everything that we
say every place that we go every single
action that we engaged in we are the
ones that are going to be
questioned so here when the of Allah and
the greatness of Allah settles in your
heart here you will reach such a high
level when you are approaching the Quran
that because you have read the Quran and
you have understood who Allah is is when
you see all of the calamities that are
befalling the umah and the Nations
around us you begin to accept this a
person will not say like what has
happened to our brothers recently in
Bangladesh these floods that are taking
place so if Allah subhana wa taala is
great then why is Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala causing these people to be in a
flood this question is wrong from the
beginning and it means that the person's
IM is not in a good place because if you
know that Allah's wisdom and knowledge
it is greater than yours and you know
that Allah loves these servants more
than you and he subhah wa ta'ala cares
for them more than you and he subhah wa
ta'ala wishes for them to have the best
more than you you will never ask this
question and calamities they draw the
Believers nearer to Allah and calamities
increase the Believers in their IM and
through these calamities and these
floods and these things that are
happening Allah is going to give them
mom likewise Allah subhah wa ta'ala has
shown us what is happening in festine
and this is something that is continuous
and we seeing it happen time and time
again so the believer here he makes Dua
for the Believers this is what you do
but you do not question why Allah
subhana wa tala does what he
does he is the most merciful one subhah
waala the prophet wasallam said this
lady that is breastfeeding her child
your mother any mother any lady you see
her with her child and how much she
loves her child do you think this lady
the prophet wasallam you would see her
you will see her throw her child Into
the Fire they said how could she throw
her child into the fire the prophet
wasam
said by Allah Allah he is more merciful
to you than your mothers are to
yourselves who knows this when they
approach the Quran this is why the
sahabah and the sallahu alaihi wasallam
when they would cry and their eyes would
flut tears they're not just reading a
book it's not any book They're reading a
book Allah
said they're increasing in guidance
they're increasing in honor they're
increasing in
elevation it is from the objectives of
the Quran so this is how you view the
Quran this is the first thing the second
thing we move on very swiftly it is how
should this heart be then when I come to
the Quran how should the heart be we
spoke about the mind how should the be
first and foremost the is the place
where Allah looks Allah he looks at your
heart so if you are reading the Quran
with intent that is other for Allah
other than Allah you will not benefit
from the Quran and if you wish to
benefit from it purify your heart the
prophet Al wasallam
said indeed Allah has vessels this is a
vessel and this is another vessel this
has has coffee in it this has water in
it you put things into it Allah subhana
wa ta'ala likewise he has vessels and
things that he puts his message into and
the prophet Al wasallam he said it is
the heart of every righteous believer if
you are righteous believer the message
of Allah will enter into your heart if
Allah looks into your heart and he sees
that you are a pure person you are a you
are a person who has you are a person
who is doing this only for the sake of
Allah Allah subhana tala will f fill
your heart with the of
thean Allah is the one who knows best
where he places the message this is in
the
Quran Allah knows
best where he places his message the
scholars of they
say meaning who he gave the message to
the scriptures the Revelation from the
prophets and
the and the HS of the prophets the
scholars Allah knows
but he will only give it to you when
your heart is in the right shape when
your heart is in a good place when you
have purified The Vessel you see the
Quran entering with you find many
brothers and sisters they come to us and
they say well the Quran is a bit hard
for me right some of you as well the
Quran is hard I cannot memorize this
page this page it is so difficult and
you find one of them nearly crying he
says Subhan Allah after a long time the
page went in
so I said why you crying then if it went
in you should be happy he said I'm
crying because it went in then it went
out it went out straight away after all
of that it went out so he thinks it's
because the Quran is not for him this is
thean is messing around with you it just
could be that all you have to do is
purify your heart a bit more because the
Believers they're pure but the prophet
wasam
said Allah is pure look
Allah is pure he only accepts the pure
ones and that which is pure so the more
that you have Purity the more Allah
subhana wa tala will bless you and the
greatest action of the heart when you
are approaching the Quran it
is this is for every act of worship
because Allah won't accept anything if
there's
noas has
come anybody who does an action and he
shares the action with other than myself
he shares it with me and other than
myself Allah said I don't want the
action anymore give it to the other
person if you give 99% to Allah imagine
99 is a big number 99 to Allah 1% I give
it to someone else someone's watching me
someone's looking I want their praise I
want their I give only one but the rest
is for Allah Allah says give the whole
99 to them as
well but y I give 99 to you I don't
want9 9 I want
100% I am your I want 100% from you so
if you don't come with 100% Allah won't
bless your journey approaching the Quran
will become something which is
burdensome something which is really
difficult something that you don't seem
to enjoy and find
easy there a du that used to
make he used to ask Allah subhana tala
oh Allah make my actions
righteous righteous pure
actions and make it only for you for
your face for your
sake don't allow anyone to have a share
nobody not your parents not your
children not your teacher not your
student not your friend not the Muslims
not the IM no one
is for this reason that the first people
that will be seen in the fire are the of
the
Quran the people who used to read the
Quran they will be seen in the fire of
the The Scholar the one who stands on
the every Friday on the member and he's
advising the people how did this person
enter into Janam he was the he was the
in the community they were respected it
is because they didn't do it for Allah's
sake so knowledge by itself doesn't
benefit the state of the heart is what
benefits you they'll be asked why are
you in the why are you in Janam
for I read the
Quran I read the Quran thei goes for
your sake why you in the fire oh I
leared for your sake also theith
mentions the MU the one that went for
J the one who
gave all of them every single one of
them it will be said to them you light
and Allah knows best you can't fool
Allah you may fool the people but you
can't fool
Allah Allah knows what your heart
conceals you look a certain way
externally Allah knows what's going on
internally and Allah will judge you
internally externally a person he works
on how he looks how she looks they
looked the part their physique how they
this is good but if this is the only
thing you focus on and you neglect your
heart you will not make it to Paradise
you will not make it you find an old man
an old Uncle he's able to walk to F from
somewhere very far on a walking stick
with bad weather
conditions and you find a young man
who's able to pick up every single bar
in the gym he can pick it up every
single one if you just put on more
weights and more kilos he'll still pick
it up but he can't pick up the
what he can't pick up the blanket for f
he hears the alarm and he just moves
from this way to the other way and Allah
is inviting him to stand before him and
he responds to Allah with a SN that's
what he
does old man he can't do anything 8s 90s
more than that he's coming to the Masid
by foot by foot how is that the case
his body may be weak but what's strong
his heart and if your heart is strong
the heart is the king of all of the
limbs the rest will surrender to the
heart but if the heart is weak the the
body everything will give up the mind
will give up and the body will give up
it will all shut down so the believer
focuses on his external no problem but
he doesn't make it the priority the
priority is the heart so this is the
second stage the third stage it is the
limbs the
limbs the most important action that you
have to remember when you are
approaching the Quran you want to enter
into Jenna I want to enter into Jenna
through this Quran I want the Quran to
intercede for me to argue for me so this
Soul it doesn't want
good what do you have to
do you have to wage war against your
soul you have to make it come to Allah
and this type of War it is the more
important War the prophet wasallam said
the War of the heart you have to make
your heart go to Allah subhana wa tala
one of the he used to
say I dragged my soul to Allah and it
was crying he doesn't want to go it
doesn't want to pray it doesn't want to
read two jws of Quran it doesn't want to
memorize Quran it doesn't want to go and
make VI of Allah it doesn't want to do
good things you have to make it so he
said I made it I dragged it I forced it
it didn't like it it was was crying but
I made it go what happened
after it continued to draw nearer to
Allah and to pull
through in the end after this it enjoyed
the journey it was laughing it was
smiling it found it to be something
which is very very sweet in the
beginning is a very emotional Journey
it's very difficult your head hurts you
think you can't do this you want to give
up so many times don't be somebody who
loses to the Shan the Shan
he's going to jam you are a Believer you
are going to J thean is he is cursed you
are you are a person who Allah has had
mercy upon you never ever listen to the
Shan and give in to his Whispers you
don't do
this he will tell you anything and
everything you don't listen to it how do
you make make sure then you don't listen
to it you have to force yourself just
yesterday was it or day before yes day
before yesterday one brother was asking
me for advice in London I'm struggling
with it's a thing that people struggle
with there's no in this asking questions
I'm struggling with this no problem he
wants advice but I gave him the same
advice you have to make yourself get up
you have to make yourself you want it's
normal a person wants to stay here and
to relax but this is not how you attain
Jenna knowledge is not attained Paradise
is also not
attained that's what the scholars of
they say for the J and the body to just
be relaxed well I want to memorize Quran
I'm just relaxed I want to go to it
doesn't even praise how you going to get
there you're going to take yourself
there you have to get there with your
own efforts of and with the efforts
Allah
says anyone who does good is for
yourself you have to make yourself go so
when you do
what happens Allah subhana wa tala he
makes you a winner in this life and in
the next
life there's a scholar from the past by
the name of Abu
Bakr what's his
name Abu
bakash Abu bakash he was in his final
moments and his sister was next to him
and she was crying because her brother
is passing
away he's is a great
scholar so he said to her oh my beloved
sister don't
cry he
said I read the Quran at that pillar at
that
Z I read the Quran at that pillar one
pillar same place 18,000 times he said I
think about this for a second when
someone's passing away who consoles who
we are meant to console them right or
wrong this person is passing away loved
one we are meant to tell them that
you're going to Allah you're going to
Jenna have good thoughts of Allah you
are going to a good place Allah is he
will forgive you we are meant to tell
the person in s everything is okay you
are leaving the D we meant to make them
feel better he is making her feel better
he is with Mal and he's saying don't
worry I'm
okay is it something which is normal he
read the Quran 18,000 times in place he
didn't live there that's not where his
bed and where his work and everything
happens this is somebody who didn't find
the
Shan any challenge I am not going to I'm
going to force myself to do this and
when you force yourself the first time
the second time the 10th time 100th time
after that it becomes second nature it
BEC something normal this is example
from the people of the past the scholars
they say from the benefit
of when you are Waging War against your
soul is and this is a beautiful benefit
this is in the Quran any challenge that
comes to you from outside you'll be able
to handle it challenge at home challenge
at work challenge in society challenge
in community and the believer so long as
you are in you are in you are in the
home and the world of test whether you
are whoever you are you'll be tested
even if you are non-muslim Muslim
everyone will be tested the difference
between the Muslim and the non-muslim is
that the Muslim is tested and they
rewarded it but the non-muslim won't be
that's the difference right right or
wrong right right so over here Allah is
telling us in the Quran this powerful
benefit take a look at this the last
Ayah
ofah and the beginning part
of Allah
says indeed those who wages war against
the themselves we guided them to the
right path so Allah will guide you you
keep trying you keep trying you keep
trying you keep knocking on the door of
Alik Allah he will open it in the end
Allah is not like the creation if you
come to me one time two time it's too
much but if you keep coming back to
Allah he loves it when you come back to
him subhanahu wa tala so every time you
come back to him
says we will guide you to our
path Allah is with the good doers that's
the end
of then Allah says
Allah subhana wa tala tells us that they
were able to defeat their
opponents externally they were able to
defeat their opponents but they were
only able to defeat their opponents once
they were able to defeat the internal
opponent first
this internal enemy of yours your soul
your it doesn't want good for you if
you're able to make it flip then any
challenge that comes to you in this
Dunya you will take it head on and you
will win this story is also mentioned in
Surah Al Bak in the story ofal and jalut
Allah subhana wa taala told them that
when you are going to them make sure
when you cross the ocean you cross the
water you are very thirsty we know but
Allah is giving you a command don't
drink from the water who gave this Allah
your NS is saying what I'm thirsty I
want to drink Allah said don't drink it
like Ramadan you really want to drink
this you really want to eat this you are
going to work the people around you your
colleagues they are not fasting or they
have a nice croissant they have a nice
lunch they have a nice dinner they have
a nice tea and you are looking at you
saying Subhan Allah but you know for you
is Jenna you have nothing to worry about
your soul is
saying adults don't do this but the
children some of them do this
right some of the children and I'm
saying this so I teach them that we
shouldn't do this it's sometimes happens
that some children undercover they eat
food undercover they eat food so their
dad and their mom is not looking and
they just go to a secret place in the
house and they go to the Garden they eat
or some of them what they do is the last
2 hours before when Mom is cooking the
nice food and the sambusa and the parata
and the bakora and all of this stuff mom
is like doing 100 things at the same
time when she's not looking he takes one
he goes to the toilet he's in the toilet
some of the children do this and they
come out they wash their face oh I'm so
hungry when is coming he at the toilet
so if the young ones are here or the
ones that are going to watch us on
YouTube don't do this if you are young
and you can't fast and you are under the
age and you find it difficult go to your
mom and dad and ask for advice they will
give you a plan some moms and dads they
told their children fast half day fast
after school some they say don't fast
today your dad and mom know best for you
but don't cheat if you do it do it if
you can't do it Allah knows you can't do
it but toilet eating and this stuff
don't do
it and in if we get time I will mention
a story inall remind me if I forget so
Allah tells us here that they were able
to face their opponents and they were
able to deal with them once they dealt
withs so these are three areas I wanted
to speak about and when you look at the
verses that Allah revealed with regards
to how the prophet should be with the
Quran Allah speaks about all of this
this messenger that we have given the
Quran to the Muhammad s alai wasallam
he's going to read theat of the Quran
he's going to purify you and he's going
to teach you you are going to learn you
are going to be purified you are going
to hear the Quran you are going to do
the actions of the limbs and do of the
Quran and all of them have to be present
if you want to be from Quran Quran don't
only read the Quran Quran don't only
memorize the Quran Quran don't only
understand the Quran
don't only pick it up and put it down
live by the
Quran day and
night they never leave the Quran they
are inseparable from the Quran they
are so you have to make the Quran the
priority of your life number one of your
life the most important thing and when
you make Allah's words and Allah himself
number one Allah will make you number
one as well Allah will make
you that's the end of
the the
story I don't know if I mentioned I
don't know if I mentioned it here before
but I'll will mention it
again and this story is on YouTube
YouTube you can find it
there YouTube gives us problems these
days
subh there was a young boy from France
this young boy was not a
Muslim so you can find I'm not going to
give too many details you can just later
go and find the whole story yourself he
was not a Muslim and every single day or
every other day or however frequent it
was he would go to the local shop and he
would buy the shopping for his house and
when he buys the shopping and he pays
for the shopping on his way out he
steals a chocolate every time he steals
a chocolate he pays for everything the
chocolate he doesn't pay for he steals
it the shop is run and managed by a
Muslim guy from a Turkish Background by
the name of she
ibraim she IIM he's the one who owns the
shop and this young boy he's not a
Muslim but he's stealing everyday
chocolate so sheim knows but he doesn't
say
anything abim he knows but he's not
saying nothing quiet he's just watching
every day one day the boy came he
brought the shopping and he forgot the
chocolate so she ibraim said come back
come back he said what's going on he
said you forgot your
chocolate he said what chocolate young
boy what chocolate he said you know the
one you steal every time that one the
same one he likes it he favorite same
one every time he STS
he start crying he said oh what are you
going to do are you going to call the
police are you going to tell my mom
what's going to happen he crying so he
said come he said I'm not going to tell
the police I'm not going to tell your
mom I'm not going to tell anyone but two
conditions if you do these two things no
one has to know it's our secret this is
the example of a a role
model Bo you as a big man you have this
big supermarket you're going to call the
police on a young boy who's Cher Just A
Cher and some people in our times they
will do this well I'm going to tell
everyone is this a CH calm
down he said I'm not going to tell
anyone two conditions first one from
today never steal from me again stealing
is not good like we told the children a
little while earlier cheating is not
good don't cheat don't steal and the
second condition is also don't steal
from anyone else so don't steal from me
and don't steal from anyone if you do
these two two things I won't tell anyone
and instead of stealing every day when
you come to the shop from today I will
give you your favorite chocolate for
free he said just don't do
this alhamdulillah he wiped his tears
away he was so happy he laughed he gave
him ice cream he looked after him then
the boy he went now he loved sh IIM so
much one day he came to the shop and
he's looking behind the counter behind
the till and there's no she
IIM so he begins to cry again he's young
boy and he asks the new people where's
IIM he says IIM he passed
away he passed away this is his hero
this is a man who gave him and he's not
even Muslim yet and he gave him he
guided him to what's right and he took
him away from what's
wrong they said passed away but ibraim
he left behind for you a gift he told us
about you and you're a special boy and
he told us to give you this gift he said
oh anything from she Ibrahim I'm going
to love please give me the gift he took
the gift it was a box he opened the box
and he saw a book what's the book the
Quran and then he looked at it because
he's not Muslim yet the Quran is in
Arabic he's from France so he went to
his friend who's from Tunis Tunisia and
tunist they speak Arabic so his friend
is multilingual or bilingual he speaks
Arabic and he speaks French he said
please this is from my hero my role
model explain this book to me because
anything that comes from IIM is
priceless for me he his friend said to
him this book is the Quran this book is
the words of Allah this book is the book
that has made the world Shake
if it was to be revealed on a mountain
it would crush AER this is the Quran
that Allah has revealed the final
Heavenly book this is what it is he said
Subhan Allah can you teach me about it
he said you know this book any two pages
when you open cuz it's two pages he said
it will have a solution for any problem
he said I don't believe that he said try
give me a problem he gave him a problem
he opened it any two pages he gave him
an answer give me another problem any
two pages he gave him an answer he kept
doing it he said it works Subhan Allah
so now he said how do I learn about this
book he said first you have to become
Muslim so the young boy he became Muslim
and guess what he started to learn the
Quran and guess what he memorized the
whole Quran and guess what he continued
the path that ibraim put him on and he
began calling people to Al Islam and
they mentioned in France people became
Muslim in the thousands through this boy
that used to steal the chocolate after
this he made Hijra to Africa and they
said in Africa tens of thousands of
people became Muslim after
this what was his name he changed his
name
to if you write on YouTube so many
mention his story all of you later
write is on YouTube famous it's true
story but how did it start he was
stealing a chocolate you see if Ibrahim
called the police all all of those
people will welome to Islam Ibrahim said
no it's not a police thing this brothers
and sisters the journey to Allah is a
heart
game if you want to come to Allah your
heart has to be in the right
place what does
say if a person loves the Quran and
loves music they're fooling thems it
will not enter into the same heart if
your heart is only for the Quran and for
Allah and his greatness and for the next
life then it will enter inshallah I will
stop here inshallah I didn't mention
this at the introduction but I'll
mention in the
conclusion I am so happy to be back in
it's been very very late and I know the
she is itching to take the microphone
because he's going to say things so I
want to keep it until the but I'm happy
to be back and may Allah subhana T bless
the community and the management and the
sheh and all of you and may Allah
subhana allow us to meet many more
times and just one question for the St
since he has been traveling from City to
city and uh he has witnessed mallah a
lot of young brothers who are qu and who
are competing uh mallah
and competing with one another when it
comes to the Quran and the of the Quran
and where was the place that has
impressed you the most and you saw in
terms of the qu and the abilities and
the talents and the Geniuses
alhamdulillah which city was like was
your city like that you felt like
mashallah this place was like
alhamdulillah there's so much talent
from this journey yeah from this year
the last journey yes the last yeah the
last journey yes tell us first of all
how many places have you been through
just like just give us an idea of this
is the beauty of the this is like uh
this is the beauty of the Quran the
beauty of the Quran the Quran takes you
to different places mallah if you
alhamdulillah put your heart into the
Quran and your trust in the Quran and
alhamdulillah you around the people of
the Quran alhamdulillah Allah can open
doors for
you I've been away for about two and a
half months quite a bit of time and when
I traveled I didn't expect to be gone
for for that long so I just intended to
go to one place and come back and I'll
mention where that was but then I found
myself when I came back I I I I
reflected and I went to 12 countries 12
some of them were repeats though it's
not 12 separate countries some I went to
more than once I I know the she wants me
to tell you the whole itinery you don't
have to disclose all of them okay some
of them
but I intended this summer to go to
Libya the country of the people of the
Quran and there was a happening there in
the city of tulus and from what I know
Libya is not a place that people
normally go for holidays like for
example Somalia so like Somalia as
Somali we go there but a lot of people
don't go there that are know somar it's
not a tourist destination likewise from
what I knew Libya wasn't like this but
when I was invited to go to a Quran
competition with and with a special
group of people I said this is going to
be a once in A- lifetime opportunity so
let me go that then led me to go to
Turkey it led me to go to Somalia after
that it led me to go to Adis Ababa after
that if you IIA it led me to go to
Medina it led me to go to qar Turkey I
actually went three times Medina I went
two times I went like maybe three times
as well so it was country to Country to
Country to Country to Country I didn't
even know what was going on but every
step of the way it was only Quran
meeting people of Quran seeing people of
Quran sitting with people of Quran being
inspired by the Quran because there's a
lot of young people here and the time is
limited I think they will be inspired to
hear this and I think the adults will
also be inspired to hear this obviously
there was a Quran competition and the
they entered and I wasn't a competitor I
was a spectator I was watching and a lot
of young brothers and s brothers came it
was only brothers and they came all over
the world international some people came
from even there's a brother Somali
brother he came from Birmingham all the
way to
Libya another brother he came from
Canada another one he came from America
came from all over the world to all
compete in the book of Allah subhana
tala so the day of the prizes the last
day the award ceremony I've been to so
many M I've never seen a m personally
that gives that much
money five people were
given gifts and remember these gifts are
for dun what Allah is going to give is
going to be greater but it's to
encourage you so first
place can someone guess how much if you
were following the competition on
YouTube then don't say it but the people
who don't know just guess so first place
the one who won the whole thing how much
money do you think he was good which
country did it take place which country
which country was he from no no which
country did take place the competition
Libya in Libya in Libya the competition
I'm talking about now is Libya in Libya
so five people were given first place
second place third place fourth place
fifth place so we're going to do an
exercise before
I we want a guess so any any guesses
first place how much money he
got start
from firstly you have to ask me what
currency US
Dollars
huh okay so so we start with so start
from the okay from the let's so fifth
place last one
how the last one 5,000 20,000 okay the
number four about four okay so I say in
the
end okay so the five and 20 number four
how much do you think fourth place
10,000 10,000 any other guesses for
number four 15,000 okay number
three third place
50,000 okay you big
jumper number two second
place
allahar oh 250
,000 250,000 four times you're a
millionaire time four 1
million and first
place huh someone said something
here huh 50,000 100,000 okay now I'll
will tell you maybe there's other that
have more but I didn't see a person in
so from the
bottom okay fifth place got $116,000
$116,000
cash fourth place got
$32,000 so more than double third place
got
$48,000 some of you said 50 for number
one this is number three he got 48
$48,000 third place second place and I
know the second place brother
personally he got $62,000
second
place first place got
$80,000 if you did anything else in this
world competition no one's going to give
you that much money shall I tell you how
much I got for my what was my price how
much okay when I when I became when I
when I became the UK
Champion I was a I was the UK Champion
Once Upon a Time this was this was
before Jamal was
born I'm
young still I was still young so what do
you think I got for the first price like
UK first price this was like UK UK and
UK UK UK UK price I'm just get I'm GNA
give you a hint like I said this was
before Jal was born UK UK there is tax
so you're going to lose the
money how much 2,000 pound anyone else
5,000
5,000 okay this was this was like way
back I'm talking about way
back
huh it's the UK
Championship oh mashah yes about 20,000
okay I think some of the brothers got it
right I got 1,000 for being the UK
Champion just one but 1,000 in those
days was a lot of money yeah we're
talking about like 30 years ago almost
we're talking about 30 years ago so yeah
time 10 so alhamdulillah that's that's
what I got I wanted to share a story as
well the last
before I entered a Quran composition a
long time ago in Al in in South London
Al Islam a wellknown m i used I used to
go to Islam before he was
born Subhan Allah so I went there and
then I went into the competition and
then alhamdulillah I got first place I
got uh
10,000 long time I told it's finished
now I don't have the money it's gone I
spent it that shows you
how I was too I've never seen 10,000 my
dad when I they gave it to me in cash so
when I came home I was counting it and
my dad helped me and when we finished he
said M it's 10,000 my dad was happy for
me I said can we count it
I've never seen this much money but this
is the story I I was first place and
then a Somali brother he became second
place I I I think he got maybe 6,000
then after we went to another
competition like one year after and I
saw him when I came in I saw the same
guy and guess what happened there he
became first I became second so Allah is
fair if I got first place there and the
second place and he always became second
maybe even you never know but Allah is
fair he made you first one time and he
made him first second time in there's a
competition it's
called only do this competition in DHA
they do it every five years what do they
do they bring the first place winners in
the whole world so Somalia and Saia and
Qatar and Dubai and Libya the all of the
world everyone who's first only first
place if you in first place
international competition come to qar
and all of the first place they go
against each other it's Champions League
like
football but then guess how much they
give there I know if I told you this all
of all of you Canan
Now 1
million is not like pound but still
still a lot it's still a lot it's about
200 it's quar of million more than quar
million 300,000 you can buy you can buy
maybe two houses in Manchester with this
money and maybe in London half
house as cheap as that anymore
I think this is going to be a good
alhamdulillah motivation for our
brothers and and you found out how old I
am tonight and I was telling you like I
I was a UK I was a UK champion before he
was even
born Subhan Allah I was nominated
actually you know the Dubai Quran
competition was not even started that
time they not even started that yeah
this is we're talking about in the '90s
Subhan Allah so so that was so you're
are sitting with Champions you know
you're like we're not easy
guys
okay so right now what we're going to do
is please sit down remain seated we just
need the uh the the media team they're
just setting up the
cameras recording the's recitation
during so take your time and unclear is
gonna sit down as well himself and then
he's going to make the Adan soon T and
muhand if mandas can come out and
Este take your time